In previous sessions I told you about all things related to service that we created.
Index dot html.
Then we created one html file inside a web pages folder, a log in, which is basically a log in to
display admin log in methods.
So now I'm closing this because we are done with that admin login and everything.
But as I told you so this is basically Java servlet.
But now we are going to deal with database Java servlet and our HTML.
So before that, I'm going to use your Oracle database.
So always remember the Oracle database services 80, 80.
That number is 88.
When you are installing, we will understand that.
So before installing Oracle GBC, there is one important step.
You have to change the.
Server port for glass feed server.
If you go to the libraries, you can see there is glass free server and in the tools of the ID, which
is NetBeans.
You can go to tools.
There is the server option.
Go to that server option.
You can see I change the port 8082 to 2000.
In your site you can see HTTP port is 88, which is basically default port for local host.
But I'm going to use your 202002.
I'm going I change this how I can change this.
So in where the installation is located on Mac or Windows system, in the Windows system you have to
go to the Sierra, which is main drive, then uses your computer name.
There you will find a glass fish server folder by default.
Location is that you can change the location, go to that part or then go to that domain dot xml.
So my location is domain switched domains domain one config domain dot xml.
You can find all the port numbers and everything.
So open any that part in ID or something.
Notepad, notepad plus plus any code editor, then search for your port number.
So I change port 2 to 0 zero two.
Your port is 88, so 88 is not more located here as you can see, 20i change 22002 So instead of 88
you can change these 2 to 0 zero two not allocated port on your system change do not allocate airport
so to 002 is free on my system so I can deploy this to 2002 server press and save this part.
Now you can.
Proceed with your installation of Oracle database.
So as you can see in the server of ID, your local list port is now changed, so mine is already changed
to 2002.
In your case, 88 change to another while installing you can also change with specifying another server
name or something like that.
So this is for installing Oracle database, many of which you will find during this installation.
Once is installation done?
Open the run SQL Command here, which is basically Oracle SQL Plus plus command.
So to connect to a school board this executing, we are going to execute using this only we are not
going to use any geo database or something to create.
I'm going to use this only.
So username is I'm going to specify default system and remember while installing you have to use password
and remember that password.
So as you can see, my system is connected.
Now I can execute any commands like create table, delete, double or anything.
So this is all about the Oracle database installation.
Before that for GDB, our Oracle database uses Oracle database Java database connector.
I'm going to use your 14,010 to the latest or something, so please use that also for database connection.
So that's all about everything set up with GDB for info that I'm going to tell you how we can set up
everything but just remember these things.
So once we are done with our admin page now let us move with Paris participants.
Log in page so I'm going to create part log in.
I already created part log in, which is participant log in HTML page to save the time constraint.
So here we are going to go to options create account.
If you are a new user or already a user, please log in.
So we are going to create the signup HTML for signup page or log in HTML for login page.
So this is very simple and I'm going to create some I'm giving the links, just, I'm giving the links.
It's all about the frontend.
So let us create some signup first.
So what is the signup?
Signup page.
So I'm going to remove this.
You can do this.
Just comment only.
So this is all about header parties always.
Same in my case, you can change it to something another.
But I'm going to use only a single link for this.
All things like stylesheet and everything.
You can modify this to another, so please log in using valid name and username password you can add
or something like that.
So I'm going to change this.
Please sign up.
Not logging.
As.
New user.
Nurtured.
So.
Participant This is all about log in.
Page.
I'm going to change it to the sign up page.
Okay.
Username should be your registration number.
You can change this or something like that.
Your information.
I'm going to change this.
No need to mention this because I consider this as a university.
First university deleted.
But now I'm going to change this to all over the bar.
So I'm going I'm going to use form material as I told you in admin login I'm going to use your formatter
form method is posting action is stored.
Remember this is our Java servlet name which we are going to use stored in means storing the password
or storing the data.
So I'm going to specify a name here.
First name participant should put their name.
You can add a mode option, name, location, everything.
But I'm going to consider only four fields name, username, password and confirm password because I'm
going to tell you some basic part of it, not very deep part of everything.
So name then it should be text and name.
Then username takes three username password this and confirm password, then submit button and I'm going
to close all the text.
That's it out p signup so how we can see our store.
P So before I'm going to tell store P and all the methods with the database connection, I'm going to
tell you about more about some servlet, but how the servlet is actually work and why the server later
I'm going to use here for the database connection and everything.
So let us see why our database and everything is very good using the servlet.
So normally the what is the function from server and everything runs on is request and response.
So consider one server which uses CGI.
CGI means common gateway interface before these technologies are exist like server java.
Then Python also CGI is most commonly used.
So CGI technology enables the web server to call external programs.
What we are creating, these are the external programs.
These are stored in the server, but it's not on the network.
Our Java program is not on the network is on the system.
Basically, we are writing on the system server, which is that part.
And to use that part logic inside network so before.
So let's see g-technology enables web server to call external programs and pass as a HTTP request information.
We are going to pass as a HTTP.
It's converged just servlet or java logic to HTTP part, but to extend program process request for each
request you start the new process.
So here comes some logical or computer science part process.
This means past consider as our task.
So if you want to go to three shops.
But every time what you are going to logic is I'm going example for a shop you want to go to shop A,
B, C, but every time what you are going to do from the starting point, go to A, then come to the
starting point, then again from the starting point, go to B, then again come to the starting point
to starting point.
Each process takes too much time, so it creates three processes.
Consider that if you want to invoke three external programs, it creates three processes each time new
processes.
This creates server load.
Ultimately, server is a machine, so server takes.
But much in order for creating each new process to handle that process and everything to we are assuming
we are writing in the higher level language, but inside the machine it's again going to use in binary
language or we can say machine level language.
So so it is very difficult to handle programs, higher level programs.
Now the disadvantages of CGI comes, as you can see, these are the this is the image of CGI.
This is a request from client.
This is our server, http server.
This is CGI shell.
Shell.
What is the CGI shell?
It consists the external programs.
Which CGI programs.
So this is one process here.
It goes to this.
It runs this.
And it will fetch.
This is, again, sage for the new process.
This again, search for the new process.
These are the endless loops.
And these are going to this request and it's giving the response.
So as you can see for this server, allocate some memory for this server allocates memory.
So process load is very high for the CGI programming.
So if the number of clients increases, it takes more time to sending the response ultimately over the
response and request.
Time should be less in Java servlet as the ideal conditions for each request.
It starts a process and web server is limited to start process.
Start processes like web server cannot create 100 or 1000 amount of times.
There is some restrictions on processes.
Also you can for that much servers consider a server which can create only 1000 processes.
So if the 2000 clients come and ask for request, CGI server cannot create more processes.
More than 1000 I'm considering as an example, but it uses platform dependent languages C, C++, Perl.
What is the difference between that?
Java is the platform independent.
You can use Java on any system as if you are using Linux server, Mac server, Windows Server, anything
you can use.
So I'm using a Windows machine if another to what we can say with another person using Mac machine or
Linux machine, it can easily use that java, but c C++ first are platform dependent ultimately.
So let us see about what is Java solid.
So Java servlet creates web container.
It is very new technology we can say or reason technology we have container.
It creates the trade.
So trade means basically these are some process loading commands or we can see process loading handling
commands.
So trades for handling multiple requests.
One trade can handle a 1000 requests, so it can create thousand requests, thousand response each trade.
So ultimately, we are increasing the number of processes.
So multiple requests can be come to the servlet.
There are many benefits over the processes such as they can share common memory area.
They are lightweight then processes.
Each process is.
So players can use common memory like trade of one trade to share shares, common memory area in a server,
a controller like that.
So these trades, what can they do?
They can easily access same memory in any time or any amount of time.
There are some timestamps are given.
Again, the cost of communication between two trades like trade of one and two also can communicate.
Process one and process two.
Communication is very difficult and there may be errors inside that.
So for that error reduction, again, we have to use some system methods or something like that.
But in threads we can we can easily communicate that between two threads.
So advantages of stability over CGI.
First is better performance always because it creates 3 to 4 requests probability because it uses Java
language.
Probability also increases probability.
Java language.
As you can know, there is system default or if CGI loads on your own machine, if there is error in
some counterpart or something like that.
If you are using common variable between two processes, see C++ Perl use the error, but probability
of java language of giving error is very low, so processor load is again low, robust.
JVM manages servlet, so we don't need to worry about memory leakage, garbage collections, such parts.
So it is very robust.
So JVM takes care about that servlet part and everything, so it creates a virtual machine for that.
There is no need to worry about all things garbage collection, so never trust the garbage value on
system or HTTP container or we can say web app.
I need to secure because you teach our language, we can see we can create public private.
We can use abstract, we can use interface.
Anything inside Java solid.
So these are all about the Java servlet.
But now you know, the I will tell you about the guest post in a letter.
But remember, we are going to use two methods here.
Get and post method as you can see in in that we created a source package which is name as we created
as validated.
We are going to use do post method.
You can use do get method also here but we are posting something information.
So I'm going to use your do post.
I use your do post method.
So this is all about the Java servlet.
I told you so.
In the next further session I'm going to tell you about how we can consider this and using p sign of
how we can put in the database all the participants name and everything.